HTTP 1.1
1️⃣ HTTP 1.1 was first standardized in 1999.

2️⃣Multiplexing
✔A client can request a server in single way, which means only one request can be sent at a time over a single connection.
✔Data Load will be slow compared to HTTP 2.

3️⃣Header Compression
✔Headers are not compressed.
✔It can result in significant overhead, even for small requests.

4️⃣Binary Protocol
✔It uses a plain text format, which is human-readable.
✔but it less efficient for parsing by machines.

5️⃣Server Push
✔Does not support server push.
✔This server can't send additional resources to the client until requested.

6️⃣Prioritization
✔There is no Inbuilt support request prioritization.
✔All requests are treated equally.

7️⃣Connection Handling
✔It Requires multiple connections to load multiple resources.
✔It can be resource-intensive and less efficient.

8️⃣Adoption
✔Widespread and well-established, used by most websites until the adoption of HTTP 2.

9️⃣Security
✔Both HTTP 1.1 and HTTP 2 can be used over secure connections (HTTPS), and the security features are generally similar between the two.


HTTP 2.0
1️⃣HTTP 2.0 was first standardized in 2015.

2️⃣Multiplexing
✔A client can request to the server in multiple ways of resource in single TCP connection, 
in which parallel request will be going into server using single tcp connection.
✔Data Load will be Faster compared to HTTP 1.1

3️⃣Header Compression
✔Headers are compressed, Header compression is called as HPACK.
✔It Reduces the size of Header.
✔It makes a request & responses more efficient, even Big request made compared to 1.0

4️⃣Binary Protocol
✔It uses a binary format for the payload.
✔It is more efficient for parsing and processing by machines.

5️⃣Server Push
✔It Supports server push.
✔It allows the server to send additional resources to the client before the client requests them.
✔This reduces the need for multiple round trips and speeds up page loading.

6️⃣Prioritization
✔It Supports request prioritization.
✔It allows clients to indicate the importance of various resources, which helps optimize loading critical resources first.

7️⃣Connection Handling
✔Uses a single, multiplexed connection,
✔It reducing the overhead of establishing and maintaining multiple connections.

8️⃣Adoption
✔Adoption is increasing, especially among major websites and content delivery networks (CDNs).

9️⃣Security
✔Both HTTP 2 and HTTP 1.1 can be used over secure connections (HTTPS), and the security features are generally similar between the two.